From what we've seen,
YOLO can work well for multiple objects
where each object is associated with one grid cell.
But what about in the case of overlap,
in which one grid cell actually contains the center points of two different objects?
We can use something called anchor boxes to
allow one grid cell to detect multiple objects.
In this image, we see that we have a person and a car overlapping in the image.
So, part of the car is obscured.
We can also see that the centers of both bounding boxes,
the car, and the pedestrian fall in the same grid cell.
Since the output vector of each grid cell can only have one class,
then it will be forced to pick either the car or the person.
But by defining anchor boxes,
we can create a longer grid cell vector
and associate multiple classes with each grid cell.
So, let's define two anchor boxes with some initial width and height.
In practice, you can define as many anchor boxes as you want.
You can imagine that these boxes are two different shapes for gift boxes.
You typically choose gift boxes so that the nicely fit any object you put in them,
and we wanted to find anchor boxes so that they
span the variety of object shapes we want to detect.
Anchor boxes have a defined aspect ratio,
and they tried to detect objects that nicely fit into a box with that ratio.
For example, since we're detecting a wide car and a standing person,
we'll define one anchor box that is roughly the shape of a car,
this box will be wider than it is tall.
And we'll define another anchor box that can fit a standing person inside of it,
which will be taller than it is wide.
We can now modify the output vector of each grid cell to contain both anchor boxes,
which have coordinates and class scores.
So, the output vector will now contain 16 elements.
The first eight elements will correspond to anchor box one,
and the last eight will correspond to anchor box two.
Now, because the bounding box around the car has a higher IOU with anchor box one,
the anchor one elements of our output vector will include
the classification and box parameters of the car.
Similarly, since the bounding box around the person has a higher IOU with anchor box two,
the anchor two elements will include the parameters of the person.
It's very challenging even for humans to identify overlapping objects in a scene,
and anchor boxes give us a way to do this, which is pretty cool.
But as with any object detection method,
it has its limitations.
Consider the case of two overlapping people,
this algorithm will check which present fits with
anchor box one and which one fits with anchor box two.
It can only associate one object with each type of anchor box,
so it doesn't work very well if you have
two overlapping objects that are roughly the same shape.
Similarly, if you only define two anchor boxes but have three overlapping objects,
then this algorithm fails because it will be forced to identify only two of the objects.
The good news is that the above cases are somewhat rare.
In the next video, we'll see how YOLO puts all these techniques
together and performs object detection for a complex image.